entity type : collection of entities of same attribute with different values
Example : 
preson(entity), 
1.aadhar_number : 123456789,
name : "meena",
age : 23;

2.aadhar_number : 987654321,
name : "usha",
age :29;

cardinality ratio : n : m



ER Model:
 
The Entity-Relationship Model (ER Model) is a conceptual model for designing a databases. This model represents the logical structure of a database, including entities, their attributes and relationships between them.

Entity: An objects that is stored as data such as Student, Course or Company.
Attribute: Properties that describes an entity such as StudentID, CourseName, or EmployeeEmail.
Relationship: A connection between entities such as "a Student enrolls in a Course".


Types of Entity:

There are two main types of entities:

A Strong Entity:
    It is a type of entity that has a key Attribute that can uniquely identify each instance of the entity. 
A Strong Entity does not depend on any other Entity in the Schema for its identification. It has a primary key that ensures its uniqueness and is represented by a rectangle in an ER diagram.

2.Weak Entity:

       A Weak Entity cannot be uniquely identified by its own attributes alone. 
It depends on a strong entity to be identified. A weak entity is associated with an identifying entity (strong entity), which helps in its identification. 
A weak entity are represented by a double rectangle. The participation of weak entity types is always total. 
The relationship between the weak entity type and its identifying strong entity type is called identifying relationship and it is represented by a double diamond.

Types of Attributes:
1. Key Attribute:
The attribute which uniquely identifies each entity in the entity set is called the key attribute. 
For example, Roll_No will be unique for each student. In ER diagram, the key attribute is represented by an oval with an underline.

2. Composite Attribute:
An attribute composed of many other attributes is called a composite attribute. 
For example, the Address attribute of the student Entity type consists of Street, City, State, and Country. 
In ER diagram, the composite attribute is represented by an oval comprising of ovals.

3. Multivalued Attribute:
An attribute consisting of more than one value for a given entity. 
For example, Phone_No (can be more than one for a given student). In ER diagram, a multivalued attribute is represented by a double oval.

4. Derived Attribute:
An attribute that can be derived from other attributes of the entity type is known as a derived attribute. 
e.g.; Age (can be derived from DOB). In ER diagram, the derived attribute is represented by a dashed oval.

Relationship Type and Relationship Set:
A Relationship Type represents the association between entity types. 
For example, ‘Enrolled in’ is a relationship type that exists between entity type Student and Course. In ER diagram, the relationship type is represented by a diamond and connecting the entities with lines.
eg:
student ------> enrolled in --------> course

Cardinality in ER Model:
The maximum number of times an entity of an entity set participates in a relationship set is known as cardinality.

types of relationships:
1.one to one
2.one to many
3.many to one
4.many to many

1.One-to-One Relationship:
When a single element of an entity is associated with a single element of another entity, it is called a one-to-one relationship.
For example, a student has only one identification card and an identification card is given to one person.

2.one to many:
When a single element of an entity is associated with more than one element of another entity, it is called a one-to-many relationship
For example, a customer can place many orders, but an order cannot be placed by many customers.

3.Many-to-One Relationship:
When more than one element of an entity is related to a single element of another entity, then it is called a many-to-one relationship.
For example, students have to opt for a single course, but a course can have many students

4.Many-to-Many Relationship:
When more than one element of an entity is associated with more than one element of another entity, this is called a many-to-many relationship.
For example, you can assign an employee to many projects and a project can have many employees.
